The spatial mapping ToF device provides quality performance and accuracy. As an alternative to the Light Detection and Ranging sensor, the ToF spatial mapping device provides a cost effective and less bulky design suitable for indoor navigation. This device revolves around the main computing system of the MSP-EXP432E401Y microcontroller, integrating the VL53LIX time of flight (ToF) sensor, the 28BYJ 4-phase stepper motor, along with the ULN2003 motor driver board to accompany the stepper motor. The device comes initialized with appropriate default firmware to interface the microcontrollers on board push buttons and LEDs upon power up.  

The VL5L1X ToF sensor achieves distance measurements for each scan through signal acquisition, preprocessing and analog-to-digital conversion (ADC). The ToF sensors principle works by measuring the time it takes for the light to reflect from the emitter back to the sensor, the value is then divided by two and multiplied by the speed of light. After acquiring the raw value, the sensor must conduct some internal pre-processing, such as ambient light rejection or signal filtering to prepare the signal for ADC. The ADC enables the sensor to convert the reflected analog light pulses into digital timing data used to process the digital distance data. 
	
Given this raw digital distance data, the VL53L1X communicates this information to the microcontroller via I2C protocol. Once the data is received to the microcontroller, it works to send data to the personal computer (PC) via the UART serial communication protocol. The PC uses the specific COM port to access the values and manipulate the data with trigonometric functions to transform the data into a y-z coordinate system. The entirety of the serial communication protocols driven by the set 18MHz bus speed which facilitates data transfer. The PC can then take multiple layers of the y-z coordinate, and piece them together along the manually displaced x axis to render a 3D spatial map of the interior scan. 

